{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16940\viewh15720\viewkind1
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \
AMAT 503 - Tutorial 3 - February 12, 2010. \
\
The Discrete Wavelet Package.\
\
The goal here is to download the MATLAB code for the textbook, install it onto your system, and begin using the code. Try both 1D (sound) and 2D (images) signals.\
\
Step one:\
In your browser, go to http://www.stthomas.edu/wavelets\
Click around to find the SOFTWARE, and download the\
DISCRETE WAVELETS PACKAGE, for MATLAB.\
Save the unzipped files somewhere useful on your drive. (You might like to save this on your webdrive, or a USB key, as the lab computers get cleaned every week -- your files there will disappear.)\
\
Step two:\
Follow the INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS on the download page, to get this installed in MATLAB.\
\
Step three:\
Follow the KNOWN ISSUES page.\
In particular, you must download a separate file called MyFiles.zip, and unpack it into the same directory as the others.\
\
Do the rehash and startup in MATLAB.\
\
Step four:\
Read the Help files for the DiscreteWavelet Toolbox, within MATLAB. See what you can learn on your own.\
\
Example.\
Gee. What is a Haar wavelet transform? How do I compute it?\
v = 1:32  % A simple waveform\
h = Haar() % filter coefficients for a Haar wavelet\
wt = WT1D1(v,h) % the wavelet transform\
y = IWT1D1(wt,h) % the inverse transform\
abs(y'-v) % compare the original and reconstructed waveforms\
plot(1:32, v, 1:32, wt)  % plot the thing\
plot(1:32, v,'x', 1:32, wt,'.') % plot with pretty symbols. Look at the last half. Interesting!\
\
Example:\
How do I repeat this transform? How many times can I repeat it?\
v = 1:32  % A simple waveform\
h = Haar() % filter coefficients for a Haar wavelet\
wt = WT1D(v,h,3) % the wavelet transform, repeated 3 times\
plot(wt,',') % Look at the thing. Notice the patterns. \
\
\
Try this with Daubechies wavelets, or Coifman. (Read  the documentation to figure this out.)\
\
You should try to plot a picture of the Daubechies wavelets, they are pretty interesting.\
\
Example:\
Working with a sound:\
snd=AudioNames(); %Get all audio files included with the toolbox\
v=wavread(snd\{2\}); %Read an audio file\
v=ChopVector(v,4); %Make sure the length is divisible by 16\
plot(v); %Plot the vector\
wt=WT1D(v,Daub(6),4); %Compute four iterations of the transformation\
WaveletVectorPlot(wt,4,'Title','Four Iterations Using Daub(6)'); % a pretty plot\
\
Examples:\
Working with images:\
Read the image demos, try the wavelets with that.\
\
Examples:\
Also on the web page are a bunch of computer labs, for each chapter in the boo. Check out Chapter 6, the Haar wavelet chapter. Try out the computer labs there.}